---
title: An Enjoyable Beginning
excerpt: First SAC and First Impressions
layout: post
---

{% include header.html %}

# A Brief Introduction

Hi! For whoever reads this, my name's Garv! Currently, I'm doing VCE Software Development, units 3 and 4, and this blog
will serve as a place for me to share my experiences, document my journey, as well as an archive of sorts of different
projects and ideas. You can also view the GitHub project with all my
work [here](https://github.com/garv-shah/software-dev). Let's get started!

# First Impressions

So far, I've thoroughly enjoyed the subject. It's been pretty easy, we've just done some simple gui basics, and it's
been really nice thanks to the freedom the class offers. I know that many times, I've just been working on my own side
project during class, and it's great to not only have proper time to do that during school, but also to be in a room of
like-minded people who are able to help me tackle problems in a way that I wouldn't have necessarily thought of, as well
as a wonderful teacher who is great at inspiring me to do more. I'm very glad that the school has given me the
opportunity to do the subject, considering that I am two years younger than everyone else, and it's a very fun way to
get familiar with new ideas, concepts and different ways of approaching problems. Overall, so far I've found the subject
relatively easy but very fun, but I'm sure everyone in the class has too, so I'm hoping that I can push myself to do
better if I'm hoping for that 48+.

# First SAC

My first SAC! It marks the start of my VCE journey, and honestly it was incredibly fun (so far, haven't finished it yet)
. If you'd like to view the GitHub folder for the SAC,
click [here](https://github.com/garv-shah/software-dev/tree/main/SACs/SAC1%20Garv%20Shah).

## Module 1

It started off very simple, with a tiny word match program. I finished it in like 15 minutes, so I was a bit confused as
to what I was going to do for the rest of it, but I found doing the testing tables was surprisingly nice and relaxing.
It's almost like the "mundane-ness" of it is what makes it fun, cause you get to just sift through your code and make it
better in a variety of ways, while also understanding what you did yourself, and why you did it. It's like a reflection
phase, and I haven't done it before, but I quite like it. It gets me to question myself: "why did I do that?", "is there
a better way to achieve what I did?", "what features could I add to make this more friendly?". Stuff like that. Overall,
very nice, would recommend, though maybe not for _everything_. In the end, I added a few extra features like the name of
the input text file not mattering, as well as the ability to tell if the input file was valid or not.

## Module 2

Module 2 was also quite simple, but as expected progressed in difficulty. It was a terminal based primary school word
quiz, which inputs from a csv file, and creates a series of questions by topic. You can also filter by topic, and the
csv was manually typed, so I added in a lot of validity checks for the file. Again, it was relatively simple, but the
testing table was enjoyable, and going through and finding ways to make it more robust was also fun. Namely, I made it
so if the csv file was missing certain values, it would tell you where it was missing the value, and aid you in writing
a valid CSV file, instead of just saying it was invalid. It was also quite a fun project, and it would be cool to turn
it into a GUI.

## Module 3

Finally, we move on to the GUI. This was a little Juice Bar program, and it was very fun to create. It definitely took
longer than the other two, and if Ms. Cotugno hadn't given us that extra period, I would have been done for. That being
said, I did end up finishing completely in the end, with a nice looking properly functioning GUI, that mostly just
filled in the requirements but didn't do anything extra. Mostly, it was just about looking good, which I think I
achieved well, but my code was also modular enough to be flexible, adding in more categories, without having to change
much code. The only thing that wasn't robust was calculating the price, but honestly I couldn't be bothered for such a
small app, it's pretty easy to create a dict for it if the scale was bigger. I also wanted to add in stuff like a user
account system, as my data gets saved to a csv file, and it could be cool to see previous orders, but I didn't end up
getting the time to do that. I also didn't test as thoroughly as I probably would have liked to, but that's okay,
because I think my program was pretty nice and well-rounded, and I did a lot of testing when programming itself. All in
all, it was a great module, and I'm glad I got to do it.

## Module 4

Module 4 is a short answer section which lasts for one period. As of writing this, I haven't actually done it yet, so I
won't be able to outline my impressions, but hopefully it will be good.

# Conclusion

Overall, I'm very excited for my software development journey. I can't wait to see what the subject has in store for me,
and what I'm able to create through the course of it. See you next time!
